We know humans learn from their past experiences and machines follow instructions given by humans  but what if humans can train the machines to learn from the past data and do what humans can do and much faster well that's called machine learning. now can you guess whether paul likes it or not able to guess whether paul will like it or dislike it are the choices we could easily classify song a but when the choice became complicated as in the case of song b yes and that's where machine learning comes in. let's see how in the same example for song b if we draw a circle around the song b we see that there are four votes for like whereas one word for dislike if we go for the majority votes we can say that paul will definitely like the song that's all this was a basic machine learning algorithm also it's called k-nearest neighbors. so this is just a small example in one of the many machine learning algorithms quite easy right believe me it is but what happens when the choices become complicated as in the case of song b that's when machine learning comes in it learns the data builds the prediction model and when the new data point comes in it can easily predict for it. more the data better the model higher will be the accuracy there are many ways in which the machine learns it could be either supervised learning unsupervised learning or reinforcement learning. let's first quickly understand supervised learning suppose your friend gives you one million coins of three different currencies say one rupee one euro and one dirham. for example a coin of one rupee weighs three grams one euro weighs seven grams and one dirham weighs four grams your model will predict the currency of the coin here your weight becomes the feature of coins while currency become the label when you feed this data to the machine learning model it learns which feature is associated with which label. hence supervised learning uses labeled data to train the model here the machine knew the features of the object and also the labels associated with those features. here let's say you provide the system with an image of a dog and ask it to identify it the system identifies it as a cat so you give a negative feedback to the machine saying that it's a dog's image the machine will learn from the feedback and finally if it comes across any other image of a dog it will be able to classify it correctly that is reinforcement learning. to generalize machine learning model let's see a flowchart input is given to a machine learning model which then gives the output according to the algorithm applied if it's right we take the output as a final result else we provide feedback to the training model and ask it to predict until it learns. i hope you've understood supervised and unsupervised learning so let's have a quick quiz you have to determine whether the given scenarios uses supervised or unsupervised learning simple right scenario one facebook recognizes your friend in a picture from an album of tagged photographs scenario 2 netflix recommends new movies based on someone's past movie choices scenario 3 analyzing bank data for suspicious transactions and flagging the fraud transactions think wisely and comment below your answers. moving on don't you sometimes wonder how is machine learning possible in today's era well that's because today we have humongous data available everybody is online either making a transaction or just surfing the internet and that's generating a huge amount of data every minute and that data my friend is the key to analysis. well that's an interesting machine learning model which is used by global taxi giant uber and others where they have differential pricing in real time based on demand the number of cars available bad weather rush  etc.
